Overview : 

A relational database stores data across multiple tables that are linked together through related fields.
Desktop databases are designed to store data locally, to be accessed on an individual personal computer system.
Server databases are designed to be stored on a server that can be accessed over a network by a large number of users on client devices.
A relation is a table in a database.
A tuple is a row in a database table. This is also known as a record.
An attribute is an individual data item in a record. This is also known as a field.
The domain is all the possible allowable values for an attribute.
The cardinality is how unique an attribute is in terms of its data values.
A select operation retrieves a subset of tuples from a relation.
A union operation retrieves all the tuples from two relations combined together.
A intersect operation retrieves the tuples from two relations that appear in both relations.
A join operation combines the attributes from two relations.

RDMS Terminologies include Database, Table, Columns, Rows, Primary key, Foreign Key, Composite key etc.

Database     : A relational database (RDB) is a way of structuring information in tables, rows, and columns. 
               i.e. Database is a collection of tables like <Student>, <Professors>, etc.
Table        : A relational table is a table of columns or fields that describe a listing (or rows) of data.
               Simply a table is a collection of rows and columns.
Column       : A column is a list of values, usually belonging to a particular field, displayed vertically in a table.
               In a relational database table, values within a column each correspond to a different record. Values in a column share a data type. 
Row          : A row is a single group of related data within a table, Row is also called a tuple in RDBMS.         
Primary Key  : A primary key is a column or a set of columns in a table whose values uniquely identify a row in the table.
               A primary key cannot have null values.
Foreign Key  : A foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a table whose values correspond to the values of the primary key in another table. 
               In order to add a row with a given foreign key value, there must exist a row in the related table with the same primary key value.
Super Key    : Super key is a single key or a group of multiple keys that can uniquely identify tuples in a table.       
               Super Key can contain multiple attributes that might not be able to independently identify tuples in a table, 
               but when grouped with certain keys, they can identify tuples uniquely.      
Composite Key: A composite key is a candidate key that consists of two or more attributes (table columns) 
               that together uniquely identify an entity occurrence (table row).
Candidate key: Candidate key is a single key or a group of multiple keys that uniquely identify rows in a table. 
               A Candidate key is a subset of Super keys and is devoid of any unnecessary attributes that are not important for uniquely identifying tuples. 
               The value for the Candidate key is unique and non-null for all tuples.  
 ACID Properties :RDBMS follows the concepts of Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability (normally shortened as ACID). 
               These concepts are applied on transactions, which manipulate data in a database. 
               ACID properties help the database stay healthy in multi-transactional environments and in case of failure.
